<center><b>RESEARCH PERMISSIONS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM</b></center>

<center><b>Educational and Scientific License</b></center>

This "_**License**_" applies to the original work of authorship and invention ("_**Original Work**_"), which was developed pursuant to Grand Opportunity Grant, #RC2LM10796, awarded by the National Institutes of Health to the South Carolina Center of Economic Excellence in Healthcare Quality; such Original Work being more commonly known as the Research Permissions Management System, including all subsequent Improvements and Modifications ("_**RPMS**_"), and whose Licensor has agreed to release RPMS subject to the terms and conditions contained herein.

The term "_**Licensor**_" as used throughout this License specifically refers to  Clemson University Research Foundation, a nonprofit supporting foundation of Clemson University; MUSC Foundation for Research and Development, a nonprofit supporting foundation of The Medical University of South Carolina; and the University of South Carolina.

The term "_**You**_" as used throughout this License, whether in upper or lower case, means any governmental, educational, scientific, or nonprofit entity ("_**Public Entity**_") that exercises any right granted under this License, and such Public Entity’s End Users.  "_**End Users**_" are those persons who are employed by or are agents or representatives of such Public Entity.  Any person who is not a Public Entity or an End User must seek express written consent, in advance, from Licensor prior to any use of RPMS.

Your downloading, copying, reproducing, modifying, improving, displaying, performing, communicating, distributing or use of RPMS constitutes acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this License.  If You do not agree to such terms and conditions, and if you are neither a Public Entity or End User, You have no right to download, copy, reproduce, modify, improve, display, perform, communicate, distribute, or use RPMS.

(1) 	<u>Grant of License</u>. Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein,  for use strictly and exclusively in connection with educational or scientific purposes as such terms are interpreted by the appropriate legal authority pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and any accompanying regulations, Licensor grants to You a universe-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-transferable license, for the duration of each copyright and patent embodied in RPMS, to do the following:

(a) to make, use, display, communicate, and perform the Original Work and any Modification either publicly or privately.

(b) to reproduce the Original Work, Improvements, and Modifications in copies, either alone or as part of a collective work; 

(c) to distribute or communicate copies of the Original Work and Modifications to the public under this License; and

(d) to make and use, but not distribute, communicate, or publicly display or perform Improvements to the Original Work;

"_**Improvements**_" shall be defined as basic enhancements, error corrections, patches and fixes.

"_**Modifications**_" shall be defined as Improvements, which have been expressly approved by Licensor  for release as an official Modification under this License.

(2) 	<u>Grant of Source Code License</u>. The term "_**Source Code**_" means the preferred form of the Original Work for making Improvements and/ or Modifications to the Original Work and all available documentation describing how to modify or improve the Original Work. Licensor agrees to provide a machine-readable copy of the Source Code of the Original Work and each Modification along with each copy of the Original Work that Licensor distributes. Licensor reserves the right to satisfy this obligation by placing a machine-readable copy of the Source Code in an information repository reasonably calculated to permit inexpensive and convenient access by You for as long as Licensor continues to distribute the Original Work and any subsequent Modification.

(3) 	<u>Exclusions From License Grant</u>.  Neither the names of Licensor, nor the names of any contributors to the Original Work or any subsequent Improvement or Modification, nor any of their trademarks or service marks, may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this Original Work or any subsequent Improvement or Modification without express prior permission of the Licensor.  Except as expressly stated herein, nothing in this License grants any license to Licensor's trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets or any other intellectual property right.  No license is granted to the trademarks of Licensor even if such marks are included in the Original Work or any subsequent Improvement or Modification.  Without the express written consent, in advance, of Licensor, You are not permitted to make or cause to be made any derivative work of RPMS, or any element thereof.

(4) 	<u>Attribution Rights</u>.   You must retain, in the Source Code of the Original Work and any Improvement and Modification that You create, all copyright, patent, or trademark notices from the Source Code of the Original Work, as well as any notices of licensing and any descriptive text identified therein as an "Attribution Notice." You must cause the Source Code for any Modifications and Improvements that You create to carry a prominent Attribution Notice reasonably calculated to inform recipients that You have modified the Original Work or subsequent Modification, and at a minimum, must provide the following:

(a) Any Improvement and Modification must carry prominent notices stating that you modified the Original Work or subsequent Modification, and giving a relevant date. 

(b) Any Modification must carry prominent notices stating that it is released under this License.  

(c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to any person who comes into possession of a copy.  This License will therefore apply to the whole of the work, and all its parts, regardless of how they are packaged. This License gives no permission to license the work in any other way, but it does not invalidate such permission if you have separately received it. 

(5) 	<u>Disclaimer of Warranty</u>.    TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR RPMS OR ANY ELEMENT OR COMPONENT THEREOF.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING, THE LICENSOR AND THE PATENT AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE RPMS “AS IS” WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE RPMS IS WITH YOU. SHOULD RPMS PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. This DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY constitutes an essential part of this License.  No license to the Original Work or any subsequent Improvement or Modification is granted by this License except under this disclaimer.

(6) 	<u>Limitation of Liability</u>.   Under no circumstances and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, shall the Licensor be liable to anyone for any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or the use of the Original Work, any Improvement, or Modification including, without limitation, damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses. You expressly assume all liability arising out of or associated with your use of RPMS.  This limitation of liability shall not apply to the extent applicable law prohibits such limitation.

(7) 	<u>Termination</u>. This License conditions your rights to undertake the activities described herein, including your right to create Improvements and Modifications of Original Work, on compliance with the terms and conditions  hereof.   To undertake any activity listed herein without abiding by these terms and conditions is expressly prohibited. This License shall terminate immediately and You may no longer exercise any of the rights granted to You by this License upon your failure to abide by the any of the terms and conditions contained in this License.  However, if You cease all violation of this License in a manner that is acceptable to the Licensor and take all corrective action required by the Licensor, then the License to RPMS may be re-instated for You by the Licensor.  Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this License shall terminate automatically and You may no longer exercise any of the rights granted to You by this License as of the date any person commences an action, including a cross-claim or counterclaim, against Licensor or any licensee alleging that the Original Work or any subsequent Modification infringes any third party’s intellectual property rights.  This termination provision shall not apply for an action alleging patent infringement by combinations of the Original Work with other software or hardware.

Those provisions, which by their very nature were intended to survive termination of this License, shall survive termination.

(8) 	<u>Jurisdiction, Venue and Governing Law</u>. This License shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of South Carolina, and You consent to the jurisdiction and venue of the state and federal courts of Richland County, South Carolina in the event of any dispute arising out of or in connection with this License.   The application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any use of the Original Work and any subsequent Improvement or Modification outside the scope of this License or after its termination shall be subject to the requirements and penalties of copyright or patent law in the appropriate jurisdiction. This section shall survive the termination of this License.

(9) 	<u>Attorneys' Fees</u>. In any action to enforce the terms of this License or seeking damages relating thereto, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its costs and expenses, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in connection with such action, including any appeal of such action. This section shall survive the termination of this License.

(10) 	<u>Miscellaneous</u>.   In the event that any provision(s) or portion(s) of this License is (or are) determined to be illegal or unenforceable, each remaining provision, or each remaining portion thereof, shall continue to be valid and effective and shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.   No failure or delay by Licensor in exercising any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right.  The rights and remedies herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law, except where expressly stated otherwise.  Any failure on your part to comply with any of the obligations, agreements or conditions hereunder may be waived by the Licensor.  No waiver of any provision of this License shall be deemed, or shall constitute, a waiver of any other provisions, whether or not similar, nor shall any waiver constitute a continuing waiver.  The section and other headings in this License are inserted solely as a matter of convenience and for reference, and are not a part of this License.   The recitals are incorporated into and made a part of this License.
